Building a data culture we are living in a time when data is taking over the world.
There's so much data.
It's just unbelievable and everything is going to be driven by daughters soon.
Everything every process every sense or everything is going to be measured down and feeding it into
the business world into any kind of processes that we are part of as human beings.
And that is going to change the way things are done that is going to change the way business is conducted
.
And you know most right now people are expected to be able to use iPads.
Ten years ago people didn't even didn't even know how to use iPads.
Now it's an expectation that you know how to swipe and pretty much everybody knows how.
Well in ten years from now I predict that everybody in every organization in the world is going to be
expected to have some sort of level of data literacy and to be able to work of data and derive some
sort of insights from data to make their work more efficient and to add value add additional value to
this.
And so as you're performing Dallasites work currently and you're talking with different people in different
levels in your organization you're in the back of your head you should always have this thought that
you should be creating a a culture you should be creating data advocates in your organization.
What do I mean by that.
Well basically you should show people how valuable data can be and how much additional efficiency you
can bring to their work how easier it can make that work.
How much more interesting can make the world interesting data is in general and you have to win them
over so convert them to the to the light side to side of dollar don't make enemies of doubt and make
friends of that.
And why.
Why do that.
Well first of all because eventually it will happen and you're basically giving them you know helping
them out.
Now before this whole change happens when they will have to be data literate.
But secondly they will help you out further on so they will drive your fame agenda.
They will tell other people how much you help them in their role using God and people will be more open
to you when you approach them.
And also they will always give you ideas so even when you finish a project they will later come back
and say hey I have these cool ideas you know maybe we can do something else with this data and you want
to have these allies in the organization that are interested and willing to help you in your journey
on making your organization more data driven.
And you can do this regardless of the level you're at.
You might say only as a manager can start creating a data culture in an organization and you know inspiring
people to know that really anybody can do that.
Even if you're delivering a project or just a bit of a project somebody just spent some time on explaining
it to the people spend some time on actually showing it showing them how much value this has proven
for the business and for this work specifically.
I'll give you an example.
So I did a project with a massive project on optimizing the efficiency of processing communications
that were coming into company so there was a huge bottleneck.
Customers were waiting for like 40 days before to get a reply from the company just because there was
such a swarm of mail coming in and the 11 people are working on this project just simply didn't have
the capacity to process that much incoming requests and was taking them 40 days to get back to customers
on average and after I did some downsize work and did some optimization we reduced Sadako just three
days from 40 days to three days.
That's incredible That's like over 90 percent reduction in backlog.
And that meant a lot and I mean a ton for the customers the business for the revenue for the experience
and so on.
But still after this project I went back to the department that was actually posting to those 11 people
I took to the manager and I offered to present my findings and the results that we got to them so that
I didn't have to do this because like they they're just proceeds to make their life easier.
But they they didn't understand how this happened.
So I spent the time to go back and present everything I found and exactly what we did to those 11 people
.
Do you know how happy they were.
Do you know how grateful and satisfied they were that daughter was able to change the course of their
day to day work was incredible is incredible to the looks on their faces but more importantly after
that they kept coming back to me with more and more ideas on how further we can you know drive this
these implementation's and increase the efficiency of the work so that's how you create data advocates
and give it a go see how how you go about creating doubt.
Because I'm sure people will be very open to that idea.
Your organization as well.